The Google Pixel 7 Pro is Android Police's 2022 smartphone of the year 

© Provided by Android Police It's easy to take the Pixel 7 Pro for granted. Pick one up in a carrier store and you're likely to sigh. Same old, same old, you'll mumble to yourself. And while Google's latest flagship phone certainly packs few surprises, truthfully, you're missing the bigger picture. Yes, the Pixel 7 Pro is a simple evolution on its predecessor, but by picking up where the Pixel 6 Pro left off, Google was able to develop a smartphone that is better in nearly every single way. The refinements in play this year can be seen from all angles. The hardware is closer than ever to Samsung's level, with the camera bar elegantly blending into the frame and wrapping around the entire device. While we'd love to see Google drop some of its bad habits — the glossy glass back is so 2018 — the overall design is better than anything the company has ever offered. Meanwhile, the Tensor G2 chip powering this phone allows for even more AI tricks than ever before. While it's only a modest boost in sheer performance, tools like Photo Unblur and Recorder genuinely change the way we use smartphones. Capturing a lecture or an interview has never been easier, even when multiple speakers could potentially trip up the automatic transcriptions. And seriously, Photo Unblur saved images from a decade ago that I thought would remain blurry messes forever. It's one of the most impressive tools I've ever used, and it's exclusive to Google's latest smartphones. And that's to say nothing about the cameras on these particular devices. Since its inception, the Pixel series has been the best way to capture the world around you, and that remains true to this day. While the Galaxy S22 Ultra bests Google in terms of sheer flexibility, nothing tops the Pixel 7 Pro when it comes to getting incredible shots on a moment's notice. Whether you're shooting with the primary lens, the improved ultra-wide, or the flexible 5x telephoto sensor, the images this thing outputs are second to none. Google also finally figured out its reliability issues. Unlike with the Pixel 6 Pro, we've seen very few bugs rear their ugly heads this year. Security patches and Feature Drops have arrived on time and as expected, and the odd issue has seen quick action taken by Google. It's a good sign after the company dropped the ball in 2021. Put simply, the Pixel 7 Pro offered the most refined experience of any smartphone in 2022. In a year packed with devices offering small changes to existing hardware, it was Google's efforts that impressed us the most, and that's why it's earned our Phone of the Year award. Whether the company can do it again next year with the Pixel 8 — or, potentially, the Pixel Fold — remains to be seen. But right now, if you want the best Android phone, it's hard to beat Google's offering.


﻿Digital Camera Features We'll Never See In Smartphone Cameras 

Spend enough time shooting with your DSLR or mirrorless camera, and operating it becomes muscle memory. Your fingers know exactly where to press, toggle, or tap to change ISO, switch shooting modes, set your autofocus, or change any number of settings. With a little practice, you won't even need to look away from your subject matter while you're shooting — and you'll never miss a shot. As a plus, many of these buttons are customizable, letting you program the most useful camera functions (like back-button autofocus) to be within instant reach (via Improve Photography).  Smartphones are meant for many things besides just taking photos, so they inherently lack the controls needed to quickly manipulate whatever camera settings are available to you. At least, these controls aren't as easily accessible as they are on a camera with a dedicated shooting mode dial, ISO button, autofocus point selector, and so on. The iPhone, for example, takes a couple of taps within the camera app to uncover options for changing the exposure, f/stop, flash, or self-timer.


﻿Price hikes helped OEMs arrest sliding smartphone revenue in Q3 2022 

Smartphones are 10% costlier than this time last year Some exciting smartphone launches are coming up just around the corner in 2023, with high-profile devices like the Samsung Galaxy S23 series and OnePlus 11 already lined up. There's a lot riding on some of those handsets, as looking back at smartphone sales across 2022, companies recorded a steady decline in revenue during Q1 and even Q2 2022, mostly fueled by the worldwide economic chaos, component shortages, and political turmoil. Thankfully, Q3 2022 broke this trend, allowing companies to stop their performance slumps. ANDROIDPOLICE VIDEO OF THE DAY Data from Counterpoint Research shows the global smartphone market’s revenue was 3% lower in Q3 2022 than the same quarter last year, hovering close to the $100 billion mark. Analysts at the firm believe Q3 losses are lower than previous quarters this year because the average selling price (ASP) of smartphones went up 10% year-on-year (YoY) this quarter. Part of that trend can be tied to the further proliferation of 5G devices, which demand higher prices than their LTE predecessors, and contributed a whopping 80% to the smartphone industry’s revenue in Q3, up from just 69% in Q3 2021. In terms of shipment volumes, 46% of the smartphones sold had 5G capability, although overall sales dipped 12% YoY. Laying some statistics down, Counterpoint Research senior analyst Harmeet Singh Walla said: At over $80 billion, the revenue contribution of 5G handsets reached an all-time high of 80% of global handset revenues, up from 69% in the third quarter of last year. In the same period, LTE handsets’ revenue contribution fell 10% to $19 billion. Samsung’s ASP rose just 2% but its 5G phone-fueled revenue swelled 27% in the same period. The Korean brand also seriously increased the number of Galaxy Flip and Fold shipments from a year ago. Xiaomi’s 4% YoY revenue growth in Q3 2022 was helped by low- and mid-range phones, but its ASP still grew by a whopping 14% YoY. Oppo (with OnePlus included), on the other hand, saw revenue decline 27% and its smartphone ASP dropped by 5% compared to Q3 2021. Where do we go from here? Time will tell, but continual innovations coming to the smartphone industry, coupled with the overall increase in average selling price should make for a rather interesting Q4 2022.


